---
layout: post
title: Disruption in the next Quarter Century
description:
image: https://media.giphy.com/media/5xtDarmcjuc4j6rWRhK/giphy.gif
categories:
tags:
math: false
mermaid: false
---


https://www.gov.uk/government/news/emerging-disruptive-technologies-nato-competition?utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=govuk-notifications-topic&utm_source=01b512aa-21fe-4b79-8dee-185e9b90f6a0&utm_content=weekly

# What do you think are the opportunities and risks of emerging and disruptive technologies?

## The Techonolgies
Although there is a lot of hype on Artificial Intelligence, the term itself is vague since it encompasses many subdomains. Autopilot systems in aircraft have existed for many years, yet they could be considered AI. Yet, you wouldn't let an LLM like ChatGPT handle an aircraft. 

An LLM's strength is in interpreting written language and predicting what word should come next in a stream of text. An autopilot's strength is ensuring that an aircraft remains stable in the face of turbulence. 

The robotics domain has also become more prevalent. Boston dynamics in the early 2010s demonstrated to the world what can happen when you combine 

The two landmark moments in technology in the 2010s were the advent of AI in AlphaGo and the development of robotic systems seen from boston dynamics. In the first half of this decade we have seen the start of what can happen when these technologies are pushed and combined. Humanoid robotics are a representation of what can happen when you combine language models with hardware. This industry currently promises a generalist robot assistant much in the same way that LLMs promise a virtual assistant. 

In all of the aforementioned, the focus is on individual things - a single plane, a single robot, a single LLM. Each of these items are a unique blend of many other technologies underneath, interacting in ways that best leverage each of their advantages. 
Each of these itemr hold their own advantages - robots can carry things, planes can fly people, LLMs can interpret text. 

The true disruption will occur on two levels - the creative combination of modern technologies that are becoming unique items, and then the combination of items themselves. 

Consider departments within a company. The company has three layers. From top to bottom - upper management deals with company strategy (how the company should behave based on the world external to the company) and inner policies (how the compoany should operate internally). Middle management each own a department, lets just consider marketing and engineering for now. Then, marketing has a graphics designer and a copywriter. Engineering contains a front end developer and a back end developer. 

This company's value in the world is about how it creatively operates (internally) to deliver value externally. It contains a set of individuals, and the way they interact represents the company's culture and its outputs. The individuals have a balance of specialist and genralist tasks. In order to speak to one another, they require a common language. In order to perform at their function, they require a certain specialism. 

What we are currently seeing emerge are technologies that are able to handle both generalist and specialist functions. individual technologies are handling this in creative ways, such as with humanoid robots and self driving vehicles. One of the opportunities here is to get these technologies validated for safety critical tasks. 

Although individual technologies with this creative specialist-generalist combination are opportunities in and of themselves, the true innovation lies in the combination of the different specialist-generalist technologies. It's not the individual robot that is interesting, it's the group of robots, combined with the group of cars, combined with the group of boats that all interact amongst themselves. The first to achieve such integrations, essentially being able to create organisations of autonomous specialist-generalist systems to deliver value and perform tasks will win. 

Why? Because the role of an organisation is to combine specialist-generalists to deliver value on something that no other organisation can. Consider the police force, or a construction contractor, or an airline. 

If we were to extend this scale one more time, then we can consider societies. In the end, organisations generated by societies, for example companies, institutions or charities are there to deliver value by combining groups of specialist-generalists. Their common language is often the exchange of resources at a large scale, represented by financial transactions. 

Going back to the example, we can see that the creative combination of non-human organisations will lead to a form of artificial society. 


In essence, the combination of stochastic methods (such as LLMs) and deterministic methods (such as an autopilot) represent an opportunity to merge a specialist and generalist skillset into single technologies. When these specialist-generalist systems will interact, they will give rise to teams and organisations. When these teams and organisations interact, they will give rise to artificial societies. 


Ultimately what we want to understand is - how do we want these *groups* to behave? As a result, what behaviuors do individuals need to exhibit to ensure that the group behaves as we intend. 

## The Disruptions

## The Opportunities
